[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Amidst
all of the messages
we're bombarded with, there
are simple truths that
withstand the test of time.
The problem is that these
words are historically
from society's philosophers.
Our world no longer honors
philosophers, but I do.
Today we're going to
be speaking with one
of the best, steeped in
the greatest traditions
of the world, Steven Ross.
Steven is going to share his
wisdom about alchemy, which
is a very much misused term.
I mean, we see this-- you can
even see in advertising, having
to do with beauty products
now, the word alchemy
is all over the place.
Which really is kind of--
the plot has been lost.
Is that fair to say?
>>STEVEN ROSS: I would
say that's very fair.
And it really leads
us into a subject
that I think is
very, very important.
And that is when you look at
terminology from ancient times,
from past
civilizations, and they
use words that are relatively
close to the words we use,
the difference really
is astronomical.
As an example, in ancient
times, the word magic
meant one who understood
the workings of nature.
Now, magic has that
connotation of being-- it
could be black magic, it could
be very, very mysterious.
But the magi, the magician,
was very highly thought of,
because they understood.
We will get into
another term that really
is associated with
the alchemists,
and that is the
word imagination.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
We're going to spend a
little time in that realm.
Because that's very different
in today's parlance as well.
>>ROSS: Definitely.
>>REGINA: Going back
to the term alchemy,
back in the day, when people
used their language very
carefully and had a completely
different understanding of it
than an chemical
marriage between
say, two elements to
make a finer beauty
product, for example.
[LAUGHTER]
Let's talk about what their
lifestyle was at the time.
Because as you've told me off
camera, this was a lifestyle.
Alchemy was an actual way
of living for these men.
>>ROSS: That is very true.
Now, also in alchemy, I
include the term theurgy,
which was a practice
of the ancient Greeks.
Because alchemy is
looking for a change
of state, a transformation.
So when we talk
about alchemy, I want
to include a couple of other
regimens that are so close.
What the ancients were trying
to do through the term alchemy
was to blend opposites
to achieve a oneness.
And that sounds very simplistic.
And it is simplistic, because
they said alchemy was using art
to perfect nature.
It is speeding up
a natural process
through the use of
the art, alchemy,
to achieve a something.
Now, you and I spoke
recently, again, off camera,
leading to this show, that
we live in a fast food era.
And the word alchemy
now really means
somebody is going to find the
magic elixir, that magic rod,
the Philosopher's
Stone, and they
are going to have all knowledge,
all wisdom, all abilities
to do everything.
>>REGINA: That's a modern day
word of use of the word magic,
by the way.
[LAUGHTER]
>>ROSS: That's correct.
And in looking back,
my understanding
is when you look at the
ancient philosophers who
practiced either
alchemy or theurgy--
and I should really
define theurgy.
Theurgy, as used by the
Greeks, was individuals
who placed themselves in
position, through their actions
and their thoughts,
that they would
be a mirror to the
higher spheres,
to the gods and
goddesses or God.
So in other words, they would be
acting godlike on this planet,
and they would draw those forces
down from the higher spheres.
They would be a mirror of the
grander part of the universe.
Well, this was not
something that just happened
with the snap of a finger.
This was something
that was a practice.
It was a philosophy of life.
It was an individual living
the life of an alchemist, which
would mean an individual who was
working at achieving something.
Every one of these
philosophers will tell you,
they were years and
years to accomplish it.
Many of them didn't reach it.
But the ones who did
always would say,
either an individual or
wisdom herself came to them,
and then everything opened up.
So we are going to continue
with this conversation,
and I will get into what does it
mean living the chemical life,
so that people will understand
it isn't some magical device
or object that you find.
It is a change of state
where an individual so
transforms themself, they
transcend the physical self.
That they reach a
very high state.
>>REGINA: So what I'm
understanding out of that,
as you were saying toward
the beginning of it,
it's almost as though
they're finding
the resolution to duality.
>>ROSS: That is-- when you
look at the various chemical
paintings and graphs
that they have,
it is always showing this
combination of opposites.
Bringing the opposites together.
Now, in alchemical
terms-- and you
have to remember,
in those days, they
did not have the words for
unconscious, conscious,
subconscious, so
there were terms
that were used as a
parlance of the day
to try to explain this
combining of opposites.
That is really the alchemical
way, the hermetic marriage,
the masculine and the
feminine within an individual.
Now again, most of your
listeners are very, very savvy,
and they understand
that within a male,
you do have the feminine
nature, you have a masculine.
And in the female,
it is the same.
It is this combining
of these opposites,
becoming one, that aligns
an individual to the higher
precepts, the greater
wisdom that is there.
But again, it is a practice.
It is a lifestyle.
I'm going to jump all the way
ahead to someone-- Ralph Waldo
Emerson, who is more of a
modern day philosopher, who
spoke about self-reliance.
It is-- those alchemists did not
depend on some outside source.
They did not have their gurus.
They had people they admired,
but they had to do the work.
And the true alchemists
did the work.
>>REGINA: Which is different
than having secrets
passed on to you, which is
only a stage in the process.
And I want to go into that,
because the notion of secrecy
has become a hot topic.
Right?
Because we feel as though
our privacy's being
invaded on many levels
in this modern era,
because of technology
and so forth.
But then if you go further into
the conspiracy communities,
anything having
to do with secrecy
is inherently negative
or evil or there's
a controlling elite behind it.
Yet that was really critical
to the great teachings
in the time.
And I want you to take some
time explaining this to us.
What was originally intended
all the way through the times
to today?
Is it still relevant to have
these great, deep wisdoms
shared or kept secret?
>>ROSS: I'm going to
start with an analogy that
is a little biblical.
Actually, it's a lot biblical.
Moses goes up to the mountain.
And I want people to
visualize Charlton Heston,
because it's all we see here.
>>REGINA: He cut a great
Moses on the screen.
>>ROSS: That's right.
So Moses goes up
to the mountain.
He's talking to
the burning bush.
He gets all this knowledge.
He's aligned with
the wisdom of God.
He ends up with a white
beard and white hair.
He comes down from the mountain.
He goes to the pharaoh.
Let my people go.
So he has his brother Aaron
cast his rod on the ground,
and it turns into a snake.
It was a white snake.
Now, most people would go,
ooh, that was really something.
But the pharaoh was
really not moved.
He tells his magicians to
cast their staves down.
They turned into three snakes.
Now, going by the movie,
so people can visualize,
there were three black snakes.
They were bigger
than the white snake,
but Moses' white snake slowly
swallowed all the other snakes.
And of course, the pharaoh's
court, then they went, ooh.
What is that telling us?
What it's telling
us is the following.
There is an energy that is
available to all people,
whether it is positive
or less than positive.
You don't have to be
a high mucky muck.
spiritually evolved.
They did the same thing.
Their energy is there for
all use and for everybody.
Now, back to your question.
Why the secrecy at the time?
The secrecy was not
everybody understood that.
And so it was kept
more of a secret,
because if everybody realized
that they had this ability,
not everybody was schooled
in high enough ethics
to understand how
to use it properly.
I am not so sure, and I
don't mean to be judgmental,
but I don't know, in today's
society, how many people would
be schooled to also use some of
this knowledge in the highest,
most ethical, loving manner.
>>REGINA: Very true.
>>ROSS: It is used
because it exists.
It is used because when an
individual like Walt Disney
decides, someday there's going
to be a Disneyland, he's using,
quote, "the secret," which
is really not a secret,
that the law of
attraction is there.
So these ancients felt this
was so powerful that they just
didn't want anybody
doing it unless they went
into the whole mystery school.
Now, that mystery school was
not like a 24 hour school
that you went in and out.
>>REGINA: Right, it
was a lifetime process.
>>ROSS: It was a
lifetime process.
That even Pythagoras,
the great philosopher,
had to sit in front of temples
in Egypt for years and years
until they finally said,
maybe this guy's serious.
This is Pythagoras.
Maybe he's serious, and
we're going to let him in.
It is a philosophy of
life where an individual
is really schooled in how
to use the higher regimes
in the highest and best manner.
So that's the answer
to your first question,
why the secrecy.
Now, if we want to
continue on that tack,
is there a need for that today?
Well, really not, because
the secret is out.
It is there.
It has always been there.
Even though there
were mystery schools,
and these people were
threatened that they would die--
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
Socrates in a moment, too.
Yes, they were under the threat
of death to reveal the secrets.
>>ROSS: It was death.
But let's get right
into Socrates.
Socrates could
reveal some of it,
because he never
took the sacred vow.
He did not go to
a mystery school.
And so he was revealing,
through his speech
and Plato's writing-- because
Socrates did not write,
but the Socratic dialogues was
written by his disciple, Plato.
But yes, he was revealing some
of these very, very important
precepts.
And that may be a
little bit down the line
from where we are of what were
they really teaching there.
But what we want to really lay
as a groundwork, Regina, is
that it wasn't a quick, you're
going to find the answer.
There's a magical note,
that when it's played,
all of a sudden you have
instant enlightenment.
It just doesn't work like that.
>>REGINA: No.
And some of these mystery
schools, in various forms,
some truer to the original
purpose than others,
still exist.
There are still people studying
these very pure ancient tenets.
But I would like
you to make comment
on that, because you
see mystery school here,
mystery school there, that's
not what we're talking
about in a lot of cases.
And help people understand
what the difference
may be when you see
an advertised "mystery
school" of one kind or
another versus genuine schools
of the tenets for life,
the understanding of life.
>>ROSS: You have a
term called esoteric,
which is the internal, and
exoteric, which is the outer.
The original Rosicrucians,
as an example,
was a secret organization where
virtually none of the members
were known, and it was
by invitation only.
Now, you have Rosicrucianism
in several different places,
where people can sign
up, they are admitted,
they take courses.
Now, I'm not picking
on Rosicrucianism,
I'm just commenting that a
lot of these original schools,
individuals had to
prove themselves
and were invited to partake
in some of this wisdom.
Going back at the
School of Crotona,
which was Pythagoras'
school around 500 BC,
it was a whole
curriculum of activities.
But he just didn't admit anybody
who signed up and paid a fee.
He really looked
at the individual,
to the extent that
he would make jokes
to see how the
individual laughed,
how the individual walked,
how the individual spoke,
how the individual
carried themselves
under various situations.
And of course, he
had a background
that he expected
mathematics and rhetoric
to be part of their background.
But he analyzed, is this
individual male or female?
And he was way
ahead of his time,
because women were treated
equally in his school.
He also had something
that was fascinating,
which was levels in his Academy
where students could not
speak for either three
or five years, which
meant they had to listen
to all of the teaching
without commenting,
without debating.
Five years for
their highest quote,
"initiates," so that they would
take in everything before they
would start arguing a point.
This is underlying what
our conversation up to now
has been about, and that
is, it is a lifestyle.
It is a philosophy of life.
Nowadays, somebody can join
quote, this "mystery school"
because Mr. or Mrs. X
says, "I am teaching
the wisdom of the ages.
This is the mystery school.
This is what you pay.
This is what you're
going to get.
And you can take level two
and level four and level six,
and I'm going to slowly
bring you to this point
where you are going to
have this great awareness."
The fallacies that I
have found, and this
is my understanding
and only my opinion,
is that very few of
these people who've
graduated from any
of these schools
is any different
than anybody else
who attends a beautiful school.
A music school, an art school.
These people who are attending
these mystery schools, what
are they doing?
Even the teachers
who are teaching.
I have been in this
field for 40 years.
I've been on the podiums
with a lot of people
who have written these books.
And they have one
persona to the public,
and then they have
another persona, where
they're telling me, oh my gosh.
I'm going under,
financially strapped.
But moments before, they're
teaching financial prosperity
and financial consciousness.
>>REGINA: There's
an incoherence.
>>ROSS: And this is
going to be a keynote
of my sharing with you.
It is the word integrity.
It is an integrity of being.
What you talk about
is how you walk.
What you say is how you act.
I'm going to define that as
either being in integrity
or being out of integrity.
>>REGINA: Well, that's a very
practical description of what
integrity is for all of us.
Everybody can understand that.
But the thing is, we
seem to give a pass to it
with the spiritual community
and the religious community.
Oh, you know, so and so,
Tammy's crying because Jimmy's
whatever he's done.
And mascara runs, and
everyone-- oh, he's just a man.
You know, he's just
doing what men do.
We have to forgive him.
But you're saying,
yeah, we're all people.
We all have these things.
But you're saying, one
has to hold oneself
to a little higher
standard than that
if you're going to profess.
>>ROSS: That's the key point.
We're all seekers.
I love what Pythagoras
said about learning.
Pythagoras said, when I come
across those who I share with,
I call them brother and sister.
When I come upon those who I
meet that give me information,
I call them father or mother.
And when I come across as
those who I impart wisdom to,
I call them son and daughter.
This great
philosopher was always
open to learning and receiving
from others without saying,
I know it all.
So I, in my belief
system, hold anyone
up to a higher standard
who calls himself
a guru, a master, or a teacher.
Because they are
imparting this to others,
sending a lot of
them-- I'm going
to use the example of a
couple names used earlier--
they're sending other
people to hell and hellfire
and damnation.
But then when the
table is turned,
they don't live under
the same standard.
I have more respect for
somebody who is consistent,
whether I agree
with them or not,
than somebody who
is out of integrity.
>>REGINA: I understand that.
I have a little note
written down here.
We already kind of blew
past Socrates, here,
but there was a
note here, I thought
it might be worth just
going back and revisiting
when it comes to Socrates
and his revealing of some
of the great mysterious
knowledge of the day.
And that was called, Socrates'
little demon, or daemon.
>>ROSS: Yes.
And by the way, I
think I'm almost coming
across too serious, here.
We're going to have to let
people know, in a real life,
I'm a very fun-loving guy.
>>REGINA: Yes, you are.
Lethyl.
We will talk about lethyl
at some other time.
But let's talk about
Socrates' little daemon.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Socrates wrote a
very interesting--
or spoke about a treatise
about a guidance mechanism
that he possessed.
And he referred
to it is a daemon.
Of course, now,
here's another one
of those terms that
has one meaning now
and another meaning in the past.
In the past, it was very kind.
>>REGINA: But also
remember, it's D-A-E-M-O-N,
is the ancient one.
And please explain
what that means.
>>ROSS: Right.
That represented a
higher order of beings
that were available
for individuals,
coming out of nature, and
also through individuals.
So Socrates referred
to this daemon
as it would always
give him advice
when he was about to do
something wrong or incorrect.
If he was going to do something
that was of high ethics
or not get him into
trouble, he wouldn't hear.
And that was his criteria
of knowing whether he
was on the right path or not.
>>REGINA: The little
daemon on his shoulder.
>>ROSS: A little
And the story is told
that he was walking
with a group of
other philosophers,
and they were going to walk
along a particular street
that they had walked
along many, many times.
And his little daemon
said, don't do it.
Don't go this way.
So he told all these
other philosophers,
and they probably had been
drinking, or whatever.
And they continued on.
He didn't.
And a herd of swine ended
up coming down that street
and basically running over
the group of philosophers,
but not him.
And so he spoke
about it, whether it
was in the major aspects of
his life, or even something
about not being run
over by a herd of swine,
it is something that exists.
That is an aspect
that really one
needs to look at to understand
what these ancients were doing.
Because what he did
there was an aspect
of what was learned in those
ancient mystery schools.
It is opening up to a greater
aspect residing in all of us,
every single one of us.
And it is going to be-- in
animals, it's called instinct.
And in individuals,
it's called intuition.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And from here, we have
several different characters
that we can move on to.
And I'm going to kind of
reverse the way I was thinking
about the conversation, because
I really don't want to miss
the part about JR Newton.
And because this-- you
were saying this thing
available to all of us.
He exemplified a "thing"
that is a state of being
that is available to all of us.
And you know, I haven't
set up correctly.
For people who haven't seen
me interview you before,
this audience, they need to know
that A, you're a philosopher.
Your PhD is in
philosophy, thus you
can talk about these
things with clarity.
And also, you're a student of
life and healing and medicine.
And you have--
>>ROSS: And fun.
>>REGINA: And fun, lethyl.
Yes.
And you have the World
Research Foundation.
Which is this amazing
library, private library,
that some of the people that
have benefited from it-- which
is about half a million people--
have funded through donations
and such, that has the most
amazing array of knowledge.
Whether it's on the electrical
system of the body and healing
with electricity from
the 1500s forward,
color therapy throughout the
ages, every form of healing,
right up to the newest
technologies today.
You have it in your library and
have helped a lot of people.
And there's more to that story,
which we'll get in later.
>>ROSS: Thank you for that.
>>REGINA: I just I want
people to know who you are.
>>ROSS: Because they may
have come across like,
Attila the Hun with my
viewpoint, and that's
not what I'm trying to do.
>>REGINA: No, no, not at all.
So let's now talk
about JR Newton
and that other state of being
that's available to all of us
and what he did with it.
>>ROSS: JR Newton was a healer
that lived in the 1800s.
In lectures I've done
around the world,
I have asked how many people
have heard of JR Newton,
and nobody has ever
raised their hand.
This is an individual
who was in the United
States who cured or rectified
the diseases of 250,000 people.
Those healings where attested to
by mayors, governors, sheriffs,
lawyers, newspaper editors.
People were brought to him
who were completely paralyzed,
with withered legs
for 15 to 20 years.
All sorts of ailments.
And in 10 to 15
minutes, they walked out
of his presence
perfectly normal,
as if they had
never had a problem.
And his philosophy, his mode
of therapy, was a real secret.
It was called love.
His philosophy was love.
>>REGINA: Most people
would say at this point,
was it their faith in
his love, or was it
his ability to project that very
high, clear, clean frequency
into their being?
>>ROSS: It was both.
Because faith is established
when somebody has this feeling
that something is
going to happen.
Not that they think
it's going to happen,
it is going to happen.
And JR Newton said, to
the matter of healing,
it is a demonstration
of the power of love.
I tell someone I love them.
I show them I love them.
And the disease must depart.
Now, there are people who'd
go on to say, I really love.
I'm the epitome of love.
But you don't feel it.
JR Newton exuded love.
It was said that nobody
could argue in this presence.
It was stated that his
eyes and his vision,
when he gazed at you,
I should say his gaze--
>>REGINA: Beautiful face.
Very pure.
>>ROSS: Yes.
Was so overwhelming
that people just
felt and knew that something
beautiful was going to happen.
And in this beauty that
this man exuded with love,
these healings took place.
Now, he stated on
his failures-- he
had 250,000 successes--
his failures came
because people didn't
believe that he could do it.
They were so indoctrinated and
believed that it wasn't going
to happen, it didn't.
But he lived the life
for his entire life.
Now, what does that mean?
We're back to-- because I could
say that is a form of alchemy.
He had the Philosopher's
Stone, because what
we're going to find out is
the Philosopher's Stone just
may be love.
That this ultimate that all
these individuals sought,
all these alchemists
wrote about,
was not a stone
outside or inside.
It was a vibration of love.
And this love solidified
in them that they--
let's use an analogy.
Love is like the genie
in Aladdin's lamp.
It is through love that the rod
of the wonder workers exists.
So there are some depictions,
friezes, of Jesus.
Somebody on another
one of your shows
mentioned Jesus holding a rod.
It just may be that that rod was
love, because how else can you
possibly depict somebody
emanating and touching another,
except by showing a
magical rod of love?
And JR Newton
exhibited it, which
lets me get back to kind
of what our point is.
Why is it that a
lot of these people
who teach these mystery
classes, their students
don't come out of
it any greater.
Why is it that most of the
religious institutions,
when their revelator
said, there will
come those who do
greater things than I,
and they read this book
over and over and over--
>>REGINA: You're
referring to the Bible.
The New Testament, yeah?
>>ROSS: Yes, the Bible.
Yes.
Why are people not demonstrating
and living these precepts?
Now, somebody may pop
up and say, no, no.
I do live these precepts.
I profess in the
name of so and so.
In Jesus I do this.
No.
Jesus laid out a complete
lifestyle of love and beauty.
And he was in
integrity all the time.
Why?
Now, people don't need me
to say he was in integrity,
but let's look at it.
He worked with people who
were quote, "sinners."
He worked with the good,
he worked with the bad.
He didn't pick and choose
who he was working with.
All individuals
who were in need.
And by the way, if
you have a wedding,
and you run out of wine,
you need to have good wine,
this individual always
was right there.
But I don't want to make
it a religious as much as,
why did one of the most
brilliant individuals, who
argued with rabbis at
13, never write anything?
He had to be smart enough, or
he could not have been debating.
According to records, he
only wrote down one time.
He drew something in the
sand when they were stoning
the harlot and then erased it.
My understanding,
my belief is, he
wrote because the written word
will always be misinterpreted,
but examples not.
And now we're back
to the alchemists.
It was by example.
It was by physically
experiencing
what was taking place
in those ancient mystery
schools, a thorough
understanding of bypassing
the conscious mind and reaching
higher states where the greater
illumination was taking place.
>>REGINA: And this,
going back to JR Newton
within this, that force
we call love, which
William Tiller, the physicist,
calls "the universal solvent"
is love.
>>ROSS: That is it.
>>REGINA: And I'm just
kind of reflecting
on the feeling of what
you were talking about.
So if JR Newton, if these other
alchemists and philosophers
of the day that were credited
with being able to heal masses,
individuals to masses,
just feeling that, sitting
in the presence of someone
that has that purity
and clarity in their ability to
share that force that we call
love, it completely melts
and disarms a being,
so that it would bypass
the conscious mind.
If we even think of
the moments when,
even in maybe a
different manner,
we have been newly in love,
and you're looking at someone,
and you feel that light, that
warmth, pouring into you.
Everything is chemically
altered in your being.
Coming from that pure place
with that intention where you've
asked for help, you can see how
that would be the solvent that
would heal all.
>>ROSS: You've
said it perfectly.
And that should be the end
of our show now, because--
>>REGINA: Well, a couple more
things to talk about, but yes.
>>ROSS: --because when we
look at these different
individuals-- I want to
highlight Paracelsus,
who was probably regarded
as one of the greatest
alchemists of all time.
Somebody who actually could do
the outer alchemy as well as
the inner.
What people fail to realize,
because they don't take time
to read everything
that he talked about,
he was very adamant
about the power of love.
But in a lot of these
classes and courses,
when people bring up Paracelsus,
they're talking about, OK.
He did this, and he had
talismans, and he did this,
and he did that.
Because within all of
the alchemical writings,
as secretive as they are,
Regina, the philosopher would
always put in one sentence,
somewhere there would say,
if you are trying to
do this on the outside,
you are going to be very
sadly disappointed, because it
isn't going to happen.
And other individuals always
would put a key in there
that would really help a seeker
truly understand that they are
writing an outer text to
grab the consciousness
of the individual, with the idea
that once your consciousness is
occupied with all this minutia,
a higher aspect comes through.
And this greater wisdom
then emanates, permeates,
takes over the individual.
And this love element
that you're speaking of
can neutralize everything
and anything instantly.
>>REGINA: It's the
highest frequency.
>>ROSS: The highest frequency.
>>REGINA: And that
does trump everything,
just as you were telling
about the three black snakes
and the one white snake.
>>ROSS: The positive in
love always will supersede.
That was the end of
that little story
that people kind of
blow through with Moses.
Like, wait a minute.
You've just come from God.
You're just come from
this interaction.
You have all the power, and
you go and do something,
and the other people
were able to do it also.
So could it be that you
are not necessarily given,
from God or the higher source,
the secret of doing something.
It is a wisdom of how to use it.
And that is the difference
between knowledge and wisdom.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now have we anything more
at this moment to say about,
I'm going to call it
the alchemy of love.
The thing that transcends,
transforms, and alters.
>>ROSS: I would say that we
can never talk enough about it.
I believe that in order for
people to really get it,
we need to continue on
with explaining examples
of how pertinent it is.
Because people out there,
especially the ones
who have bought into
courses and gurus
and teachers, when we say
love, it sounds too easy.
>>REGINA: It sounds trite.
>>ROSS: It sounds trite,
because we've made love trite.
And you also have been through
Germany, so you'll understand.
In the United States,
love is called love.
But in Germany, there may
be 13 or 14 definitions.
>>REGINA: Same in Greek.
Yes.
>>ROSS: Because I could
say, I love my car.
Honey, I love you.
I'm using the same word,
which is that love I--
it's the word love.
But it's more defined.
>>REGINA: But qualitatively,
it's very different.
And we as a species, most
of us know how to love.
We know it when
we see our child.
The first moment we see a
child after their birth,
there is this
overwhelming thing that
happens to most individuals.
Which is, again, that
pure love that's not
assigned to any specific
traits or other values.
And yet, we let
ourselves off the hook
in terms of our lower behavior.
And we've fallen into
very sloppy habits
around holding on to the
need to indict on some level.
To create other
and us, when if we
could just discipline
ourselves for a moment--
>>ROSS: Ah.
Now you just said
the magic word.
Discipline.
That means it takes work.
It takes an effort.
It takes a conscious effort
until it becomes unconscious
that you just are it.
So you just really
described why there
was a need for those
schools in the ancient time.
Because it isn't something
that you just snap your finger,
and you find that magic elixir,
and you find that magic stone,
and you find the magic rod.
It is a discipline.
It is work.
Plato and Socrates, I put
them, obviously, together,
because Plato described his
conversations with Socrates.
"The Symposium" that they
have written, "The Banquet,"
is one of the more
profound dialogues.
Because in it, it
talks about love.
It talks about
different types of love.
It is actually discussing what
our conversation has been.
And several philosophers,
the Neo-Platonists said,
their reading of "The
Banquet" and "The Symposium,"
which it was called
either one, gave them
the key to reach the
higher enlightenment
that they experienced.
They weren't mixing chemicals.
They weren't doing
outer experiments.
But they had this oneness
with the Supreme Source.
Because within that text was
what was taking place, partly,
in those mystery schools.
So the wisdom has
always been around
if people know where to look.
But it's the ego and
it's the mystery.
If I go and attend this course
that this person's doing,
I am going to have something
over my friend here,
because I am being
taught the secret wisdom.
I am getting the
arcana, the unknown.
>>REGINA: That is the roadblock
to that essential thing
we call love, though.
>>ROSS: I should be interviewing
you, because you have it down.
It is the block.
It is a block that
we are so much
looking to get, to find, to
own, that we have forgotten
what the old teachings were.
The more you give,
the more you receive.
It is an endless supply.
And I personally, in
my understanding-- now,
I keep using that
phrase, because I am not
going to dogmatically say, I
know, and this is the way--
but my understanding
is that each of us
has a direct link with
the higher sources,
with the greater
wisdom within us.
And if there truly is a
loving mother/father up there,
it should be so
easy for us to find
and not some mysterious, buried,
only certain people possess,
only they know.
Because no parent down
here would do that
to their young kids.
To have them go and try
to dig and find an answer,
losing time, and then have
to spend an eternity in hell.
So if a regular
parent is like that,
I expect my mother/father up
there to be just as loving.
And is it possible
that the alchemical key
is beauty and love?
>>REGINA: That's what I was
just going to ask you next.
Because a key element
here is beauty.
And we don't-- and we're
not talking about the cover
of "Elle" magazine beauty.
We're talking about beauty
in the most sublime sense.
As you say, it is
the partner of love.
So let's speak about
beauty by this definition.
And where beauty was
put on a pedestal
among the great philosophers and
spiritual leaders, so to speak,
of the day.
>>ROSS: One of the important
tenets from the Greeks
was the following.
The one, the good,
and the beautiful.
And what did that mean?
The one is very obvious.
It's one, one
all-encompassing all.
The word good, for the
ancients, meant everything works
in integrity.
And if you do something in
nature in the world one time,
you are going to
get an effect that
is consistent all the time.
If you break a
law of nature, you
are going to reap
a certain penalty.
You are going to reap
a certain lesson.
And that would happen
over and over and over.
So the ancients
said, that's good.
Even if the result was
bad, Regina, it's good.
Because that means
if I go this way,
this is going to be the result.
>>REGINA: You will
learn the truth.
>>ROSS: You are going to learn
that lesson and the truth.
And the third tenet was beauty.
Now, beauty, of course, people
can sit here and ruminize
over and over, no, beauty means
this, and beauty means that.
Beauty is referring to an
integrity of the parts.
It is that everything fits in.
That it is
aesthetically beautiful.
The Greeks would not allow
any irregular shapes.
They didn't allow, at
a certain time, music
with discordant notes.
Because that interruption
of the normal flow,
the integrity of something,
a building, an environment,
was so disrupting, it
stopped you from the flow.
Now, this of course we
could make a whole show on.
But the ancients believed
that there were founts
of wisdom, beauty, truth.
Plato, when he spoke about
the ideal, that sphere,
there was an ideal coming
from the higher cosmos,
by gradations, down
to our Earth plane.
And if we mirrored
things down here,
we were connected to those
tremendous founts of wisdom.
So they kept beauty here
because it aligned you
with the beauty coming
from the higher spheres,
from that state of perfection.
>>REGINA: And also that
state of equilibrium.
And when you look to the sacred
geometry throughout the ages,
there's always an
equilibrium in this geometry.
And you're bringing up something
that triggered a memory
of something else, which was--
and I won't go into any great
detail, but it is in the--
>>ROSS: Regina, it's your show.
You go into detail.
>>REGINA: No, no.
It's in the congressional
record in January of 1964,
and it had to do with the--
this is a long, drawn-out thing
about a congressional committee
that was formed to hear out
the findings of a woman
who had essentially had-- I
don't think it was her, I
think she had others doing it
on her behalf-- infiltrated
the "communist" agenda here
on the planet,
especially in America.
And but one-- that's
here nor there.
That's political.
But not really.
One of the things that
came out of it that was,
to me, the most shocking
of the 47 points
that were made in
that hearing, was
that there would be
a concerted effort
to create disharmony
and asymmetry in art
to start creating a
disequilibrium amongst society
at large to make us
more manageable and more
controllable.
And it's so interesting.
And it may show my closed
mindedness on "Open Minds,"
but whatever that is, I always
had an immediate revulsion
at what I felt was really
asymmetrical-- like throwing
poo on a canvas.
And I'm supposed to evaluate
that and contemplate that.
I've not been able to do it,
because there is no beauty.
But that is how our world
has now been constructed.
>>ROSS: And I feel
very moved, and I
feel it's important to share
a story from Paracelsus'
time in the 1500s.
An individual had locked
themselves in a room,
closing all the windows,
closing all the doors,
and did not come out for
quite an amount of time.
And when they finally went
in, the individual was dead.
Now, there was
edicts during his era
that you have to close your
windows, at least at night,
or--
>>REGINA: The evil night
humors will get you.
>>ROSS: The devil will come
in or the plague will come in.
And they also said you take a
bath once a year, because you
don't want to hurt yourself.
When they went in there and
found this individual dead,
Paracelsus, unlike anyone
else who was there,
realized that there was
a great truth there.
What was the truth?
He recognized that
nothing from the outside
had killed this
individual, but something
within their own atmosphere
had poisoned them.
And so here was one
of his philosophies.
Anything that is
closed up and does not
have a fresh stream of energy or
knowledge will wither and die,
and that includes religions,
political parties,
individuals who are dogmatic.
That is an aspect of
nature, any closed system.
And this is where the old
hermetic philosophy comes in.
As above, so below.
And as below, so above.
There are fundamental truths
that reign through the cosmos.
These are some of the
hermetic philosophies that
have existed throughout time.
I wanted to bring
him up because that
is exactly what you're sharing.
>>REGINA: Well, do
you suppose as above,
there may be poo on a canvas
dripping down somewhere?
I mean, is it
possible that I'm just
rejecting, maybe something
that doesn't personally
appeal to me?
Or could there be something
more fundamental to it,
as in being out of sync
with the natural geometry
of the universe?
I don't know.
I don't know the answer to it.
>>ROSS: It's what works for you.
Because the bottom line is,
as all these ancient teachers
would teach, stop
empowering people outside.
And I'm not saying it to you.
People, remember, I'm
a very loving man.
Don't empower people outside.
You trust yourself.
Our friend Paracelsus was at
a party that his parents had.
He was a young man.
And this sick dog
walked out of the party
and started to go
in the countryside.
And Paracelsus was very
young, and he said, well
I'd rather follow the dog.
And the dog who had been ill
walked into the countryside,
sniffing various
grasses and herbs.
Went on, and eventually started
eating an herb or a plant.
The dog lay down.
45 minutes later, it got up and
seemingly was perfectly normal.
And Paracelsus
wondered, why was it
that a dog could find out
what would work for him,
and as human beings--
>>REGINA: Are looking to
someone above, below, whatever.
To the side, to
see our own truth.
>>ROSS: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: Well, and just
to wrap this part up,
because we're going to have
a second conversation, which
is really going to be, I think,
mind expanding for people.
But toward that end of beauty,
you have in your own home
a room of beauty that also has
this amazing archive that we
talked about earlier.
And you chose that
specifically based
on, I believe you said it
was a 15th or 16th century
concept, that to promote
beauty, whether it was visually,
auditory, or whatnot, was
central to one's life.
>>ROSS: They were called
Studiolo, the word "studio"
with a "lo," and
Isabella d'Este,
who has been often called the
mother of the Renaissance,
she built rooms where the
greatest art of the day
was on the walls.
The greatest books were there.
Music played from
the greatest artists.
Because that Renaissance was
re-erecting those ancient times
where beauty was the
key note that brought
the mind into alignment.
And our room that
we have in the house
plays music 24 hours a day.
And when you gaze anywhere,
you can't help but see beauty.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And now, before we wrap
up this conversation,
one thing we didn't talk about
that I wanted to get to was
you were talking about
mother and father above.
One mother being
Sophia, that of wisdom.
Because you already teased
us with the notion of wisdom
verses knowledge.
We're going to carry that over
into our second conversation
and look at where
a lack of wisdom
has destroyed beautiful
civilizations repeatedly,
and taken them from their
height to utter destruction.
So that comes next.
And how we can avoid that.
Because we might be
sitting on a precipice.
>>ROSS: OK.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Steven.
So join us next time in
the second conversation,
in which we'll look
at the fall of Rome
and what that might have
to do with today's world.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]